Finding programmers in international market or local market?

Before I came to CBS, I was at the Bank of Korea. While working there, one of my roles was to manage 
USD/KRW foreign exchange rate volatility. In order to manage the exchange rate more efficiently, I often 
worked together with teams in New York and Frankfurt. However, we’ve never met each other in person 
and barely knew what kind of environment they are working. It was always not comfortable working with them. 

On the last day of Digital Literacy for Decision Makers, the professor talked about pros and cons of hiring 
engineers in international market and local market. This made me to realize why I was not comfortable 
working with teams in New York and Frankfurt.
Whether you find engineers internationally or locally, these are the rules that you need to consider.

1. Get the engineers work at the same office as you are if you can afford.
It is always better to work in the same office. It is very important that you actually know the engineers 
who you are working with well and it’s easier to manage your team because you can check the working
progress of the engineers easily. 

2. Consider remote teams after your team exceeds a certain size.
As engineering team gets larger, working in the same office might not be possible. It is impossible to 
make 200 ~ 300 engineers in the same office. Then you can consider remote engineering team. But the 
reason behind should not be to cut costs but to have access to great talents. When you make a remote 
team within the United States or overseas, you should consider the time zone. For example, Latin 
America and US have the same time zone, therefore it will be much easier to find a common time for a 
conference call. On the other hand, if your offices are located in multiple time zones, it’ll be hard to find 
the right time for all teams to get together. However, if you locate them properly, then you can run your 
office 24/7. Once again, even if you have remote teams, try to visit in regular basis and get comfortable with each other.

I believe this rule not only works for finding engineers but other sectors as well. This clearly explained 
the why I was so uncomfortable working with overseas teams and gave me the solution to it.
