+ In my work experience as a derivatives trader before coming MBA,
I worked with many programmer to develop an algorithm trading system.
When we started to develop a new strategy or system we requested the project to both internal IT staffs and outsourcing. 
While I participated in the meeting with developers as an end user, 
I couldn’t involve in the discussions deeply because I don’t have any basic knowledge on some program language they used. 
However I can remember that the prerequisite of the development process and coding they promised to us 
and it seemed that it was quite similar with the lessen which I had in the class. 

- First one was programmers promised that they will provide us a program (algorithm trading system) that is easy to test.

It was very important to us because we had to do various scenario test before doing in the real market situation. 
The test of the program was similar with a unit test which is done for semiconductor.
Our team thought that the program had to prove itself before using under the real market.
So the test had taken by two ways: test by developers and test by traders.
By doing such a thorough test, the program could prove that 
it can work not only under normal market conditions but also under irrational ones. 

- Second one was speed of system. 

Algorithm process time was one of most important factors 
because it had to catch a moment of time that meets conditions to execute a trading strategy.
So meeting balance between the speed of algorithm and 
the number of conditions traders wanted to build was main issue for the development.

- Lastly, refactoring was also a key for us.

Because market situations change from time to time we had to adjust our strategies or logical process of the algorithm.
As a trader I had to use different trading strategies and change conditions according to market status. 
So I had arranged monthly meeting with programmers because both believed that doing refactoring early 
and often was better than doing late and nothing.

+ Those prerequisites had something in common with the lessons I learned in Digital Literacy for Decision Makers.
After classes I could understand why the programmers had promised 
and agreed to put such prerequisites before making the algorithm system.
